What would happen if you were to reflect
the output of a dialed laser back upon itself?
To be able to answer this question
we must first look at how a diode laser actually
produces light.
In it's essence
within a diode laser
exists multiple energy levels
which electrons can find themselves in.
Shown here is a simple two state system
with a ground state and an excited state.
Electrons from the ground state
can be promoted to the excited state using a current,
from which they can spontaneously omit a photon
to return back to the ground state.
The energy of the photon that they emit
is equal to the energy gap between the two states.
This process can be repeated with many electrons
at the same time,
all emitting a photon with similar energy
and wavelength.
As mentioned before
the emitted wave has an energy
equal to that with energy gap between the two states.
This means that
once it's reflected back into
the cavity of the diode laser
it has the right amount of energy to promote
electrons from the ground state to the excited state.
It acts as a driving force
for the oscillation of electrons between the two states
enhancing the emission of this particular wavelength.
So far we've only been looking at a two state system
however in practice
diode lasers have many energy levels.
This means that there are
energy gaps between these levels
of varying magnitudes.
So a whole spectrum of wavelengths
are emitted.
These emitted wavelengths
are known as the modes of the laser.
Of particular interest to us is what would happen if we
only reflected a certain mode
back into the laser cavity.
This can be done using a grating
which spatially separates
the different modes of the laser.
Subsequently,
a high precision rotation stage
can be rotated to select
which particular mode is reflected back into the laser.
As you can see
depending on which mode is reflected back,
the nature of the output of the laser changes.
As explained earlier
the reflected wavelength acts as a driving force
for the oscillations of electrons between energy gaps
equal to the energy of the wave.
The result is a diode laser
which emits more light
with a similar wavelength to that of the reflected mode.
The final piece of the puzzle
is how to measure this change.
Sadly diode lasers do not emit a broad enough spectrum
to observe this change with the naked eye
so instead a spectrometer must be used.
Within the spectrometer
the laser beam passes through a second grating
which again reflects the beam at a variable angles
depending on its wavelength.
The beam is an incident on a charge couple device,
also known as a CCD,
which is able to detect the photons.
Due to the grating,
different wavelengths will reach the CCD
at different points
which means that
once it has been calibrated
the CCD will relate exactly which wavelengths
are present in your beam.
And also the extends to which they are present.
All in all I hope this is answered the age old question:
What would happen if I point a laser beam back at itself?
If you would like to learn more about this topic
you will find much more information online
under the search prompt optical feedback.
Thank you for your time
and I wish you a pleasant day.